[Music]
in the 12th year of Ahaz king of judah
ho shear the son of Ella's became king
of Israel in Samaria and he reigned nine
years and he did evil in the sight of
the Lord but not as the kings of Israel
who were before him shall Manisa king of
Assyria came up against him and ho she
became his vassal and paid him tribute
money and the king of Assyria uncovered
a conspiracy by who she for he had sent
messengers to sow king of Egypt and
brought no tribute to the king of
Assyria as he had done year by year
therefore the king of Assyria shut him
up and bound him in prison now the king
of Assyria went throughout all the land
and went up to Samaria and besieged it
for three years in the ninth year of who
Shir a king of Assyria took Samaria and
carried Israel away to Assyria and
placed them inhaler and by the hey bore
the river of Goshen and in the cities of
the Medes well so it was that the
children of Israel had sinned against
the law of their God who had brought
them up out of the land of Egypt from
under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt
and they had feared other gods and had
walked in the statutes of the nations
whom the Lord had cast out from before
the children of Israel and of the kings
of Israel which they had made also the
children of Israel secretly did against
the law of their God things that were
not right
and they built for themselves high
places in all their cities from
Watchtower to fortified city they set up
for themselves sacred pillars and wooden
images on every high heels and under
every green tree there they burned
incense on all the high places like the
nation's whom the Lord had carried away
before them and they did wicked things
to provoke the Lord to anger for they
served idols of which the Lord had said
to them you shall not do this thing yet
the Lord testified against Israel and
against Judah by all of his profits
every sear turn from your evil ways and
keep my Commandments and my statutes
according to all the law which I
commanded your fathers and which I sent
to you by my servants the prophets
nevertheless they would not hear but
stiffened their necks like the necks of
their fathers who did not believe in the
Lord their God and they rejected his
statutes and his covenant that he had
made with their fathers and his
testimonies which he had testified
against them they followed idols became
idolaters and went after the nation's
who were all around them concerning whom
the Lord had charged them that they
should not do like them
so they left all the commandments of the
Lord their God made for themselves a
molded image and two cards made a wooden
image and worshiped all the hosts of
heaven and served bail and they caused
their sons and daughters to pass through
the fire practiced witchcraft and
soothsaying and sold themselves to do
evil in the sight of the Lord to provoke
him to anger therefore the Lord was very
angry with Israel and removed them from
his sight there was none left
but the tribe of Judah alone also Judah
did not keep the commandments of the
Lord their God but walked in the
statutes of Israel which they made and
the Lord rejected all the descendants of
Israel afflicted them and delivered them
into the hand of plunderers until he had
cast them from his sight for he tore
Israel from the house of David and they
made Jeroboam the son of Nebat King then
Jeroboam drove Israel from following the
Lord and made them commit a great sin
for the children of Israel walked in all
the sins of Jeroboam which he did they
did not depart from them until the Lord
removed Israel out of his sight as he
had said by all his servants the
prophets so Israel was carried away from
their own land to a Syrian
as it is to this day then the king of
Assyria brought people from Babylon q
thir Ava
Amos and from 7 a.m. and placed them in
the cities of Samaria instead of the
children of Israel and they took
possession of Samaria and dwelt in its
cities and it was so at the beginning of
their dwelling there that they did not
fear the Lord therefore the Lord sent
Lions among them which killed some of
them so they spoke to the king of
Assyria the nations whom you have
removed and placed in the cities of
Samaria do not know the rituals of the
God of the land therefore he has sent
Lions among them and indeed they are
killing them because they do not know
the rituals of the God of the land then
the king of Assyria commanded send there
one of the priests whom you brought from
there let him go and dwell there and let
him teach them the rituals of the God of
the land then one of the priests whom
they had carried away from Samaria came
and dwelt in Bethel and taught them how
they should fear the Lord however every
nation continue to make gods of itself
and put them in the shrines on the high
places which the Samaritans had made
every nation in the cities where they
dwelt the men of Babylon made sakkath
beneth the men of calf made Nergal the
men of hamath made Hashanah and the
Evite's made niphas and Tariq and Assefa
veidt's burn their children in fire to a
drama league and enameling the gods of
sefar they
so they feared the Lord and from every
class they appointed for themselves
priests of the high places who
sacrificed for them in the shrines of
the high places they feared the Lord yet
served their own gods
according to the rituals of the nations
from among whom they were carried away
to this day they continued practicing
the former rituals they do not fear the
Lord
nor do they follow their statutes or
their ordinances or the law and
commandment which the Lord had commanded
the children of Jacob whom he named
Israel with whom the Lord had made a
covenant and charged them you shall not
fear other gods nor bow down to them nor
serve them nor sacrifice to them but the
Lord who brought you up from the land of
Egypt with great power and an
outstretched arm him you shall fear him
you shall worship and to him you shall
offer sacrifice and the statutes the
ordinances the law and the commandment
which he wrote for you you shall be
careful to observe forever you shall not
fear other
and the Covenant that I have made with
you you shall not forget nor shall you
fear other gods but the Lord your God
you shall fear and he will deliver you
from the hand of all your enemies
however they did not obey but they
followed their former rituals so these
nations fear the Lord yet served their
carved images also their children and
their children's children have continued
doing as their fathers did even to this
day
you